Applications

14.9 Applications of AutoencodersAutoencoders have been successfully applied to dimensionality reduction and infor-mation retrieval tasks. 
Dimensionality reduction was one of the ﬁrst applicationsof representation learning and deep learning. 
It was one of the early motivationsfor studying autoencoders. For example, Hinton and Salakhutdinov (2006) traineda stack of RBMs and then used their 
weights to initialize a deep autoencoderwith gradually smaller hidden layers, culminating in a bottleneck of 30 units. 
Theresulting code yielded less reconstruction error than PCA into 30 dimensions, andthe learned representation was qualitatively easier to interpret and 
relate to theunderlying categories, with these categories manifesting as well-separated clusters.Lower-dimensional representations can improve performance 
on many tasks,such as classiﬁcation. Models of smaller spaces consume less memory and runtime.Many forms of dimensionality reduction place semantically
related examples neareach other, as observed by Salakhutdinov and Hinton (2007b) and Torralba et al.(2008). 
The hints provided by the mapping to the lower-dimensional space aidgeneralization.One task that beneﬁts even more than usual from dimensionality 
reduction isinformation retrieval, the task of ﬁnding entries in a database that resemble aquery entry. This task derives the usual beneﬁts from 
dimensionality reductionthat other tasks do, but also derives the additional beneﬁt that search can becomeextremely eﬃcient in certain kinds of 
low-dimensional spaces. Speciﬁcally, ifwe train the dimensionality reduction algorithm to produce a code that is low-dimensional and binary, 
then we can store all database entries in a hash tablethat maps binary code vectors to entries. This hash table allows us to performinformation 
retrieval by returning all database entries that have the same binarycode as the query. We can also search over slightly less similar entries 
veryeﬃciently, just by ﬂipping individual bits from the encoding of the query. Thisapproach to information retrieval via dimensionality reduction 
and binarizationis calledsemantic hashing(Salakhutdinov and Hinton, 2007b, 2009b) and hasbeen applied to both textual input (Salakhutdinov and Hinton, 2007b, 2009b) and522

