Applications

Advantages and Disadvantages:
Like I already mentioned, an advantage of random forest is that it can be used for both regression and classification tasks and that it’s easy to view the relative importance it assigns to the input features.

Random Forest is also considered as a very handy and easy to use algorithm, because it’s default hyperparameters often produce a good prediction result. The number of hyperparameters is also not that high and they are straightforward to understand.

One of the big problems in machine learning is overfitting, but most of the time this won’t happen that easy to a random forest classifier. That’s because if there are enough trees in the forest, the classifier won’t overfit the model.

The main limitation of Random Forest is that a large number of trees can make the algorithm to slow and ineffective for real-time predictions. In general, these algorithms are fast to train, but quite slow to create predictions once they are trained. A more accurate prediction requires more trees, which results in a slower model. In most real-world applications the random forest algorithm is fast enough, but there can certainly be situations where run-time performance is important and other approaches would be preferred.

And of course Random Forest is a predictive modeling tool and not a descriptive tool. That means, if you are looking for a description of the relationships in your data, other approaches would be preferred.

Use Cases:
The random forest algorithm is used in a lot of different fields, like Banking, Stock Market, Medicine and E-Commerce. 
In Banking it is used for example to detect customers who will use the bank’s services more frequently than others and repay their debt in time. 
In this domain it is also used to detect fraud customers who want to scam the bank. In finance, it is used to determine a stock’s behaviour in
the future. In the healthcare domain it is used to identify the correct combination of components in medicine and to analyze a patient’s medical
history to identify diseases. And lastly, in E-commerce random forest is used to determine whether a customer will actually like the product or not.

